# Ballot Printer System

## Executive Summary

The *Ballot Printer System* (BPS) is a system that produces an unmarked paper 
ballot in a particular style.

## Overview

The BPS abstracts over the two main ways that ballots are created: 
 1. ballots are pre-printed and voters are handed a blank ballot in the right 
    style during voter check-in, or 
 2. ballots are generated by a print-on-demand system.  

In both cases, in the USA today every voter is assigned to a particular ballot 
style given their address and party affiliation, and the style is defined as
a part of the election setup and definition.  Thus, when a voter arrives at 
the BPS there must be a means by which they identify their ballot style and
the BPS must be able to provide a blank ballot in that style.  A pollworker
facilitates this transaction to ensure that they voter gets the right ballot
style and exactly one blank ballot.

## Manifest

The Ballot Printer System is the simplest subsystem in the entire BVS 2020
system, so there are not many artifacts relevant to its design and 
implementation.  

The BPS artifacts are:
 0. The BPS *development plan*, which is a part of the overall BVS 2020 plan.
 1. The BPS description [this file](Ballot_Printer_System.md)
 
## Glossary

Our system glossary is based upon the [Free & Fair Election 
Glossary](https://github.com/FreeAndFair/ElectionGlossary), which
is in turn based upon the NIST Election Glossary.

## Requirements

The BPS has a small number of requirements.  It is not subject to red teaming
in the SSITH project demonstrator, so while it does have security requirements,
they do not form the basis of a red team framing for this subsystem.  The
properties that this system guarantees in the BVS 2020 protocol do feed into
adjacent system properties.

### Mandatory

- *[VOTER_STYLE_1TO1]* Each registered voter is related to exactly one ballot
  style.
- *[BALLOT_ISSUANCE]* A checked-in voter that requests a blank ballot is only 
  given a blank ballot of the proper style.
- *[GIVE_ONE_BALLOT]* A voter is handed a single blank ballot if and 
  only if they are a checked-in voter and they do not possess a blank ballot.
- *[ONE_BALLOT_INVARIANT]* At any point in time in the voting process a 
  checked-in voter must only have a single ballot, which is either marked or 
  blank.
- *[VOTER_RETURN]* If a voter returns to the BPS to obtain a new ballot, the
  ballot style they are issued must be identical to the one that they were 
  issued previously.

### Optional

- *[PRE-PRINTED_BALLOTS]* The BPS may be realized by a poll worker determining
  the appropriate ballot style for a voter and handing that voter a pre-printed
  blank ballot of the appropriate style.
- *[BALLOT-ON-DEMAND]* The BPS may be realized by a poll worker using a device
  to convert the identification of a ballot style into a blank ballot of the
  appropriate style through a print-on-demand mechanism.

## Documentation

At this time this document is the only documentation for the BPS system.  The
overall description of the BESSPIN Voting System 2020 is found in its [parent
description](BVS 2020 system description.md).

## Validation and Verification Methodology

Our overall approach to system assurance is summarized in
[ASSURANCE.md](../ASSURANCE.md).

This particular subsystem's specification and assurance will be guanteed
through our formalization of the overall BVS 2020 workflow and protocol. In 
particular, every requirement listed above must be shown to be valid in that
protocol description.  The realization of the BPS is one of simple technology
and process, so we must ensure that poll workers who are responsible for the
BPS follow their training in the protocol precisely.

## Contributors

- Joe Kiniry wrote this system description.

## Funders

@todo indicate DARPA's support and indicate if any other agencies
contributed resources